>> Is there a deeper, more
hidden esoteric meaning
to the Hollywood films
that we all love to watch?
I'm Jay Dyer.
>> And I'm Jay Weidner.
This is Hollywood Decoded.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> The "Terminator" series is
one of the most fascinating
examples of predictive
programming,
especially when we think about
the fact that it premiered
in the '80s.
And what's neat about that is
that most people in the '80s
had not really had this idea of
an internet or what was coming.
Maybe if you worked in
government or something
like that at some
sort of secret base,
you knew about the experiments
and-- and data transmissions
that ARPANET had done.
But you didn't know about this
coming internet that would
really change the entire world.
However, there were a lot
of films, and in particular,
the "Terminator" series,
which encapsulated
this prediction of a coming
not just interlinked computer
network, but the
actual idea of AI
in a giant space-based
Skynet network.
And that's what we had in
the "Terminator" series.
>> Skynet is the bad guy,
I guess you could say,
in the series.
And it directs the terminators
to go do its will on Earth,
to kill the rebels
and things like that.
The whole idea, though,
that a guy from Canada
can come down to the United
States and be a truck driver
and work at a drugstore
like James Cameron
did and then one day come up
with this idea for a script.
And then he, you
know, then he insists
that he directs it even though
he has really no filmmaking
background at all.
And the fact that
then, you know,
he does a pretty good job.
And then, it becomes a huge hit.
The whole thing just
seems dubious to me.
As far as my own
experiences in Hollywood,
you really have to
work your way up
or you have to know somebody.
And clearly he did neither.
I mean, he did work for
Roger Corman for a while,
but not really long enough
to gain a lot of contacts.
And so I don't know what
his background really is.
I--I suspect that
there's more to it.
I don't know.
He comes from the
Camerons of Canada,
which are a very prominent
family in Canada.
We have Ewan Cameron running
the mind control experiments out
of Montreal.
We have Marjorie Cameron, who
is the wife of Jack Parsons.
She is also from Canada.
And it just-- the whole
thing seemed dubious.
And I wonder if he doesn't
have a background connected
to DARPA.
I mean, he is a smart guy, and
he wouldn't make a big show out
of it.
But the fact that there are
other Camerons associated
with intel and things
like that makes
me wonder if there
isn't something more
to James Cameron.
>> Absolutely.
>> But.
The great thing is
is that he starts out
the series with a flash-bang
B-movie action film.
And then he-- he in the next
film starts getting in to what
the implications of this AI--
and it is for all of humanity.
And then the rest of the
series really drills down deep
into that.
>> Right.
>> I think that's kind of what
we want to explore in this
show.
>> Yeah.
I see something very
analogous to what we
discussed with Philip K. Dick.
I think that James
Cameron had to have
had some kind of connection,
some kind of inside link
to what Silicon Valley, what
Stanford Research Institute was
up to in the process of
creating the internet.
Because the internet
comes out of the '60s.
You know, but by the '80s,
it's obviously being more--
it's a lot more advanced.
And you have in the late
'70s Reagan and Star Wars
Defense Initiative saying that
we're going to weaponize space.
And that's the whole principle
behind this whole-- this move,
that-- that--
everything that changes
from the '70s into
the '80s based
around space-based weapons.
>> Well, a lot of stuff was
happening in the early '80s.
We have-- we know from--
from our insiders that the
Secret Space Program really
took off.
And they developed these
really new technologies
that Reagan talks about in
his diary about ships that
can take 300 people into space.
And everyone thought he was
a whack job when he said it,
but actually, he wasn't.
And also, CIA is really
basically infiltrating
Hollywood at this point.
And that's another
point about Cameron.
You've got to wonder
what's going on here.
And it's almost like
the "Terminator"--
the first two-- were the
deepest, darkest fears
of the people that were
working inside DARPA.
They've taken,
extrapolated their ideas
all the way to the
end, and they were
realizing where this was going.
>> Exactly
>> Because early as the early
'80s, I think that-- that--
they-- you know, they Cameron,
this is not a good thing that
we're building here.
And we need to warn the world.
>> Right.
>> That's what I
think is going on.
>> So here, we're going
to move to "Terminator 2,"
because "Terminator" one
basically just sets the stage
for the storyline.
And then we--we get into
the real heavy stuff in 2
and in the rest of the sequels.
And what we have here
is Skynet basically
sets a date for the apocalypse.
And the way I read a lot of
this is that it's going to be,
essentially, a kind of
psychological warfare.
I don't really think that we're
about to see the apocalypse.
But I think that the Pentagon,
military-industrial complex
likes to play with the idea
that the apocalypse could
be at any moment and the
fear that that causes.
And this whole
idea is really out
of the Cold War and
mutually-assured destruction
and that the Soviets are going
to nuke us at any moment.
And get under your desk, right?
Which makes no sense, because if
a nuke blast is coming, right,
like what is the
desk going to do?
So then, you're just going
to melt under the desk
instead of on top of
the desk or something.
So I think that it's--
on one level, it's kind
of psychological warfare
for the public.
But I also think that
it's telling us more
about philosophical questions.
The series is going
to ask questions
about predestination,
predetermined futures,
and whether there is free will.
And of course, bots
don't have free will.
That's going to
be in the dialogue
with John Connor and
Arnold, the Terminator.
>> And time loops also.
>> And time loops.
>> How you get-- get
caught in time loops.
And the future becomes the past.
>> Which was big in the '80s.
The '80s were obsessed with
time loops or something.
What we're looking at
here is Skynet setting
the date for the attacks, 1984.
>> The computer which
controlled the machines, Skynet,
sent two terminators
back through time.
Their mission?
To destroy the leader
of the human resistance,
John Connor, my son.
[EXPLOSIONS]
The first terminator
was programmed
to strike at me in the year
1984, before John was born.
It failed.
The second was set to
strike at John himself
when he was still a child.
>> So here we have a kind
of playing with, again,
the Christ mythos.
If you remember from
part one, there's
a semi-miraculous birth for
this character of John Connor.
And he's going to be the,
sort of, human savior.
But the salvation is not from
some sort of external threat
or eternal damnation.
Here it's the salvation
from time itself.
Once again, this is the kind of
ever present theme in science
fiction, is that we're doomed
to repeat these loops--
eternal return that
Nietzsche talked about.
You know, John Connor is
basically the human savior.
He's got to free us from
this pre-determined nuclear
apocalypse.
And so that's what we're
looking at in this clip
is that Skynet has
basically become self-aware.
This is the giant AI program
that-- that basically
runs the planet in
the dystopian future.
So how can we get free from
this pre-determined time loop?
>> Yeah, they never really
answered the question,
because I don't think
you can answer it.
Because it's such a mind
screw, this whole the God--
the grandfather
complex, I think it's
called, where you go back
and kill your grandfather
and, you know, stop
him from being born.
So how did you do
it to begin with?
And Cameron and all
the other filmmakers
really want to play with
this, and it is a great idea.
Let's face it.
It's a great science
fiction idea,
and they play it
to the hilt here.
But what I like
about this clip is
that we're kind
of showing that we
are going to have
to rebel physically
against this AI
that's coming at us.
And I actually have--
very familiar with technocracy
and the coming technocracy.
And I-- these guys
are out of control.
And they're building stuff,
and no one is watching.
And I'm really kind of
worried about what I'm seeing.
>> Yeah.
>> And I talk to people--
you know, futurists
and things-- and they
don't really care about what
effects these inventions are
going to have on all of us.
And we're really heading
towards a kind of a surveillance
nightmare, in which our own TVs
and computers are watching us.
>> Right.
>> And when they do
build the terminator,
which they are
working on, trust me.
In these agencies within the
Black Ops and the military,
they're working on terminators.
They will be out.
There will be terminator
cops and terminator soldiers,
and terminator wars,
and the whole thing.
>> Well, they're already
releasing AI police bots
in select cities,
like San Francisco,
just to try to test them out--
out there where Google is.
But I think what's
amazing is that again--
not so much the time loop stuff,
like you said-- but more so
what the series is telling
us about the Pentagon
and the future.
And it is technocracy.
And when you go back and you
read the technocrats from
a hundred years ago, like H.G.
Wells or Bertrand Russell,
you know, Bertrand Russell wrote
a famous book called "Impact
of Science on Society" and he--
another one called "The
Scientific Outlook."
>> That was a great book.
>> And in both of those, he
says that the future will be
a technocracy.
We will be ruled by,
essentially, some sort-- sort
of logical computing machines.
We'll have credits that
are put onto our accounts.
We won't have
actual cash or gold.
All that will be done away with.
And it will all be run
from a centralized grid.
And every area of
life will be managed.
It's what's called the
"managerial society."
>> That's right.
>> And so absolutely.
That's-- and that's
why it's a dystopia.
So I appreciate
that there is still
in this series the
notion of human free will
and-- and rebellion
against this tyranny.
>> Yeah.
And we could see it happening
even right now around us.
You know, the major
huge corporations--
Google, Facebook, Apple--
>> Exactly.
>> --these guys aren't
going to be broken up.
They're not going
to be, you know--
their power is going to
increase and increase.
And Google right now has 86% of
all the traffic coming through.
It's coming through Google.
And this is like a group
mind that Google is building.
>> Yeah, well, what's
amazing-- yeah,
well the global brain is
the actual plan of Google
and the Pentagon.
And what's also revelatory
here is the mass depopulation
agenda.
I mean, that's-- we
can set aside the fears
of the apocalypse.
And what's really
going on in this movie
is that the AI is there
to ensure the stamping out
of humanity.
Bertrand Russell says
that the human will,
the human spirit has
to be stamped out.
And that's what they see the--
the machines doing.
You know, the real technocrats
from 100 years ago saw that.
So that's what
Skynet's there for is
to make sure that-- that the
human population doesn't just
reduce down to 500 million, like
the Georgia Guidestones say,
but actually down to zero.
And that's the real future here.
>> That's an interesting point.
I hadn't thought about
that, that the Georgia
Guidestones might be like a--
>> That's too high
of a tally for it.
>> --running interference
for the real thing,
which is zero population.
And it's very-- it's just very
interesting because the way
that these AI programs are
working is is, that they're--
they're individuating us.
They say, oh, you know, Jay
Dyer likes this and that,
and this movie and that book.
And you're getting flashed
with all the things
that you-- they think you like.
You can disrupt
the system quickly
by going to something completely
opposite of your other choices.
And they haven't
figured that one out.
We're slowly going
towards a world--
and it's not slowly.
It's actually quickly
going to a world
where when you enter
a room, the thermostat
is going to immediately
heat that room up to 70.
And then when you leave the
room, it's going to turn off.
>> Right.
>> And it's going to be
watching everything you do,
everywhere you go.
It's going to be measuring,
you're using too much gasoline.
You're using--
>> Exactly.
>> --too much energy
in your house.
You need to cut back.
They're going to shame you
by telling your neighbors how
much you're spending on hot
water and air conditioning.
And this is where we're going.
It's already happening in
some very liberal cities
in this country.
>> Right.
The smart city.
>> The smart city, yeah.
>> And that's what we get
by the end of this series,
is this giant smart city,
which is where Skynet lives.
So the-- I think the perennial
themes of this series
are very important.
It's all the stuff
that we mentioned.
But we have to also
understand that,
how does the series present
us getting to this point?
And it's going to do that
in this next clip, where
it raises the question of fate.
And the reason that
tech-- technocracy--
the operating system that
technocracy runs on is that
there's no free will, that
everything is literally
deterministic causal chains
that-- that cannot be broken.
And so we're going
to look at "No Fate."
>> No fate.
No fate but what we make.
My father told her this.
I mean, I made him memorize it
up in the future as a message
to her.
Never mind.
Now, OK.
The whole thing goes,
"The future's not set.
There's no fate but what
we make for ourselves."
>> She intends to
change the future?
>> Yeah, I guess.
>> So that's a fascinating
question because what
we're looking at here is
basically the mechanistic
universe.
And this is an
idea, a way to read
the world, a picture
of the world that
has dominated since the time
of the scientific revolution
and Descartes.
So in the history of Western
philosophy and thought, ever
since that revolution,
the world has been viewed
as a giant kind of machine.
It's like a big clock
that's kind of wound up,
and it's just kind
of ticking down.
And so in that view, everything
has its pre-determined causal
chain that makes it what it
is, and you can't really escape
that--
that flat sort of, you know,
extended, determined future.
It's just there for you.
It's made for you.
There's no way out of it.
And so the dictum that--
that John Connor has learned
is that no fate
but what we make.
And so he represents
kind of the human spirit
and the ideas of
transcending this merely,
you know,
materialistic-determined
circle, this Nietzschean
eternal return
that we can never escape from.
>> The scientists actually
really believe that we live
in this mechanical universe.
And it's like
Plato's "Republic,"
you know, on steroids,
where they're
using the machines to
make sure that everybody
is tightly controlled,
and the society
is going towards this place.
But we have nothing
to say about it.
And only the rich elites seem
to have the say about it.
And I think that we really
have to be cognizant of that,
because that is the most
dangerous place that we can go.
And I think that's what this
series is trying to say,
that we're heading towards
a very dangerous place here.
And we're going to
lose our free will.
And I guess, you know,
we have to also ask,
do we really have free will?
>> Well, yeah.
So if you think about
Daniel Dennett, who's
a famous computer
scientist from MIT,
and he writes a lot on
atheism and on the fact
that there's no human will.
It's all illusory.
The irony here is that when
he's asked and pressed about
whether or not he really
wrote his books, you know,
he tends to think that he did.
Right?
[LAUGHTER]
You know, Bertrand
Russell 100 years ago said
that we have to stamp out the
human will and human spirit,
which is interesting,
because I thought there is
no human will and human spirit.
Why would you have to
stamp something out
that doesn't exist?
>> Really good point.
>> Right?
So I think that
like you're saying--
they know that it does exist.
But they're afraid
of that, and that's
why they have to press it
down, you know, stamp it out,
and try to control it.
>> So ultimately, these films
are--are optimistic in that
we--
>> They are.
>> --are rebelling.
And we can stop this
thing from happening,
which is going to crush all
of us if we're not careful.
I think that's another point
the movie is trying to make.
>> Yeah.
Now, the series gets a little
bizarre, and it, you know,
goes off in these
various directions.
So by the time of
"Terminator 3,"
we're going to get some
new mythological concepts
introduced.
You know, we already
had the terminator
as a kind of Christ figure,
a mechanistic Christ figure,
along with John Connor
as a kind of Christ
figure in the first
two installments.
But here, we're going to look
at the possibility of John
Connor as an Orpheus and what
exactly Skynet's relationship
is to mass viruses.
You know, could
the establishment
stage a giant cyber
attack, you know,
that could lead to some sort of
global government or something
like that?
So let's look at Skynet is an--
is an AI cyber
threat virus killer.
>> OK, what do we got?
>> This new computer
virus is a tricky bastard.
It's infected half of
the civilian internet
as well as secondary military
apps, payroll inventory.
>> Primary defense
nets are still clean?
>> So far, the firewalls
are holding up.
Sir, the Pentagon has
proposed that we use our AI
to scan the entire
infrastructure,
search and destroy for
any hint of the virus.
>> I know Tony.
But that's going after
a fly with a bazooka.
>> Well, once the
connection is made,
it should only be a
matter of minutes.
>> During which we've put
everything from satellites
to missile silos under the
control of a single computer
system.
>> The most intelligent
system ever conceived.
>> I still prefer to
keep humans in the loop.
I'm not sure Skynet's ready.
>> You know what's amazing
about this is this is 2003.
And if we look to the recent
Vault 7 Wikileaks leaks--
if you looked at any of those,
if you went through those--
we saw that the CIA had the
ability through their own kind
of NSA that they
had set up to spoof
cyber attacks from other
countries that weren't really
there.
But it made it
look like they were
coming from Russia or China.
And so essentially,
they had the ability
to create cyber false flags.
We know that Stuxnet is
admittedly a cyber false flag.
So what we have here in the
film is this presentation
of the cyber threat.
And then this self-adaptive
AI software, Skynet,
is what's going to take
out this so-called threat.
But it actually adapts and sort
of comes alive, so to speak.
And that's where we get Skynet.
>> Kind of in that
contradiction.
It understand-- understood what
it was and became self-aware.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Yeah.
And you know, I was actually
grateful for that release--
Vault 7 release.
Because it really is
a fact that the CIA
can attack us from
any country on Earth,
and we can't trust
anything anymore.
And I think that AI is--
I think there is an AI
right now, actually,
and they just haven't told us.
And I think it's-- they're
hooking it up very slowly so we
don't see it.
But there clearly-- the
satellites are attached
to the ground base, and all
attached to whatever systems--
nuclear or regular weapon
systems that they have.
And I think that
there is a lot more
cooperation at a higher
level between countries
than we think.
I don't think that
there really is
nearly as much
tension between Russia
the United States as they're
trying to make it seem.
I think that we're all kind
of working together on this--
the Chinese--
China, Russia-- and just
like in the movies--
international.
>> Julian Assange said that
the internet itself is a giant
spying apparatus.
And when you look at
the history of where
it comes from out of DARPA--
>> >> DARPA, yeah.
>> --which was ARPANET,
right, back in the '60s.
It was created to be a
device for cryptography,
for transmitting messages under
the aegis of the military.
So this is military
technology that's
been released to the public
and then to the whole world.
So I think would be very naive
to assume that, you know,
that the internet that China is
using or that Russia is using
is not in some way, you
know, linked to our internet.
And I think that
you're right, that it's
kind of a theatrical
sort of chess game
that's being played out.
But really, the end goal
is what we see in the film,
it's Skynet.
>> But there are also
ramifications that are unseen
by the powers that be.
Because if you look at
like when Rome decided
to conquer the world
2,000 years ago,
they built roads everywhere
for their carriages
and their chariots.
And it was all done
for warrior purposes,
just like the internet was
created for warrior purposes.
But the Christians
and the early Gnostics
used those roads to convert
people all over the place.
And I think that's what's also
going on with the internet,
is people are using the
highways built by the military
to actually go
against the military,
actually preach
against this thing.
And I think this is like
the unseen ramifications
that John Connor is in
the "Terminator" series.
>> Right.
>> He's the unseen ramification.
Because he was educated
ahead of everybody about
what was happening--
>> Right.
>> --he began the rebellion.
And I think there's a--
there's a good argument
to say that there's
a rebellion going
on within the intelligence
services and the military
against what we're going
through even right now,
people who are aware
of what's going on.
And maybe they don't like it.
>> Right.
So in this next scene,
what we're going to look at
is the introduction of a
new level of mythology.
Because if you
know Greek history
and the ancient
Greek myths, then you
know that they were obsessed
with the notion of time.
And time, as I said, being
this kind of flat circle,
it's embodied in
Achilles's shield
in the "Iliad," that
the circle of time
just keeps going
around and around.
>> Right.
>> And they viewed it as--
they viewed time as cyclical.
So there's no way to escape it.
And that's why this mythology is
such a good analogy for what's
happening with John
Connor and his wife, Kate,
in the third installment.
So let's look at John
Connor as Orpheus.
[CHOKING]
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> You're right.
You're not the one I want.
I'm wasting my time.
[CHOKING]
>> [BLEEP] you, you
[BLEEP] machine.
[THUD]
>> Better.
[CHOKING]
>> You were just
dicking with me?
>> Anger is more
useful than the spear.
>> What?
>> Basic psychology is
among my subroutines.
>> So if you noticed the
stained glass background,
there was a figure playing
a harp between two pillars.
Now, I've-- I read this
as the figure of Orpheus.
And in the Orpheus
mythology, he would
have to descend
to the underworld
to retrieve his wife.
And in this process is where he
discovers his own inner power
and, so to speak, becomes
free from the cycle of time.
That's the-- part of
the Orpheus mythology.
So I saw that as very,
very relevant to what's
happening in the film.
Because the third
installment is really
about trying to get
out of this time
loop of predestined
nuclear apocalypse.
And it requires,
basically, him finding
his wife, Kate Brewster.
And that's exactly what
happens with Orpheus.
>> Yeah, I think that's a
very interesting observation.
I hadn't really seen that
before I read your notes
on the "Terminator" series.
And it really makes sense
John Connor is Orpheus,
and he's coming back
from the underworld
with the knowledge now, and the
power, to defeat the machines.
>> Right.
>> And he's the central myth of
Greek mythology, really late--
later--
>> Yes.
Absolutely
>> --Greek mythology-- a
very refined kind of man-god,
as opposed to the earlier,
more primitive man-gods.
And so I think that's a
really good analogy, actually,
very interesting.
>> The Orphic myths are
also-- by a lot of respected
historians and
philosophers, you know,
that study Greek philosophy--
it's believed to be
behind Platonism as well.
There's a very Orphic
quality to a lot of--
to Plato's thought.
And that's why Plato is very
much interested in transcending
the here and the
now and getting to,
you know, the ideal
realm, getting out
of the prison of time.
So it relates to the,
you know, the allegory
of the cave that you
mentioned earlier.
>> Right.
>> So here, we're going to see
how it is and why it is that
Skynet became self-aware and how
this really arose from the Cold
War, which is the actual history
of AI and Skynet in the real
world.
So let's look at that.
>> By the time Skynet
became self-aware,
it had spread into millions
of computer servers across
the planet--
ordinary computers
and office buildings,
dorm rooms, everywhere.
It was software in cyberspace.
There was no system core.
It could not be shut down.
The attack began at 6:18 PM,
just as he said it would,
Judgment Day.
>> So they weren't able to
stop the nuke apocalypse
in the film.
And that's because Skynet was
not, at that time, centralized.
It was actually a
software program
that had gone out into all
the different motherboards
in the world.
So it was out there.
And it-- so it was
not in one place
that you could get to to stop.
And so this kind
of, to me, roughly
brings to mind the idea of
the Promis software, which
is the idea that a long time
ago, they had put back doors
into all computers and that
this is actually installed
at the hardware level
at the factories, which
makes a lot of the big companies
suspect themselves, right?
Intel inside, right?
Intelligence inside
your computer.
So I think that we're getting
the kind of information
here that William Binney
talks about, the famous NSA
whistleblower, who
actually designed
the programs for the back doors
and the 3D modeling of all
of virtual reality and
so forth for the NSA.
And Edward Snowden, you
know, and his PRISM program
that he talked about.
>> Danny Casolaro.
>> Casolaro-- right.
>> Yup.
All those guys were finding
out that they were--
back in the '90s, they were
sticking trap door programs
into every single
piece of software
that was coming out
so that they could
get in anytime they wanted.
And we now know
this is all true.
And--
>> Right.
>> --you know, it
was just rumors then.
>> Well, James Bamford in 1983
wrote "The Puzzle Palace,"
one of the first--
>> Great book.
>> --one the first
books on the NSA.
And he said back then that
they had this capability, which
is phenomenal to me.
>> Yeah, I remember I
read that book back then,
and I was blown away by it.
You know, and I was really happy
with the "Terminator" series
that they didn't go
full-bore B-movie,
that they kind of
started entertaining
some of these higher ideas.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, they could have--
to be honest with you,
it would have been
a much bigger hit--
to have the terminators,
thousands of them,
unleashed on humanity and just
have this B-movie massacre,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> And they didn't.
And I thought that was actually
kind of interesting that they
didn't resort to that.
They may in the
future, you know,
because that would be
a terrifying movie.
But it would not be an
intellectually challenging
movie.
It'd just be a horror film.
And so I was kind of
glad that they kind of
went into the more etheric
Skynet, the relationship
between man and machine.
>> Free will, you know.
>> And free will.
And it was just a-- it's
a worthy series, I think,
the whole series.
>> So in the more
recent installments,
the second to last,
"Terminator Salvation,"
this is where Christian
Bale comes into the picture.
And we get the idea of the
Christ myth coming back,
and we need a savior of, how are
we going to stop this Skynet?
And so here's where we
get the hybrid, the idea
of the guy who's going to
bridge these two worlds,
kind of like Jesus is
both human and divine.
And he bridges this gap.
And so we're going to get
the half-cyborg, half-human
character here.
So let's look at
"No Second Chances."
>> Our best machines had failed
time and again to complete
the mission.
Something was missing.
We had to think radically.
And so we made you.
We created the perfect
infiltration machine.
You, Marcus, you
did what Skynet has
failed to do for so many years.
You killed John Connor.
>> Here's Sam Worthington
playing the savior once again,
the guy who bridges
these two worlds.
And we find out, interestingly,
that the weakness
of the terminators
was that they didn't
have empathy and human emotion.
They didn't understand,
you know, how to--
to integrate that into
their attack pattern.
And so they create
this character
that they think will
be kind of this spy
to infiltrate the humans,
which is the same role that he
plays--
>> In "Avatar."
>> --in "Avatar," right?
It's just that Cameron's
got a lot of these things
on his mind, I guess.
Right?
What happens is that
it's the reverse.
He's actually-- because
he's this-- this bridge
between these two worlds
and he has free will because
of his emotions and you
know, empathy, he's able
to, therefore, defeat Skynet.
>> It is kind of crazy how
close that is to "Avatar."
>> [LAUGHING] Right?
Yeah.
>> I mean, it's really crazy--
both Sam Worthington,
same year both films
came out, with
almost the same plot.
Very strange.
And Cameron had
influences on all that.
So it really makes you wonder.
But yeah, that was a great
ending to the series.
I don't know-- I haven't
seen the new one yet.
So I can't comment on it.
But I thought that the ending
of that series was really good.
>> I think, really, the
best part of the new one--
it didn't do that
well critically.
And I think it was
mediocre box office.
But the most relevant
aspect of the last one,
"Genesis," was that it was back
to the time loop narrative.
But what happened was
that they literally put,
you know, our tech
devices that we all
carry as the means by which the
awakening of Skynet happens.
And so they actually have all
of the humans opting into it.
You have to opt into it, right?
>> Wow.
>> And if you opt into it, then
it sort of transfers the right
for Skynet to rule
over to this--
this ethereal AI entity.
>> And that seems to be also one
of the rules of the Illuminati,
that they have to get
you to tacitly agree--
>> Exactly.
>> --to their plan, or the
plan cannot be executed.
So that's very interesting.
Well, these films are great.
I mean, you know, they're
well worth watching,
all the way from
beginning to the end.
And they're advancing
a narrative that we all
need to think about.
>> Yeah, I see them, too,
as predecessors too a couple
recent films--
more recent films--
that are very important,
like "Ex Machina"--
>> Yes.
>> --and "Her," the
Spike Jones film.
>> "Her."
>> Both of these contain
the same warning,
the same narrative or threat,
of everybody opting into this
system through reliance and
being a slave to their tech
devices, and that this will
actually have consequences
in the future for our progeny.
>> I highly recommend "Her."
That is a great film,
no doubt about it.
>> My final takeaway is that the
series is about human free will
versus technocracy.
I mean, that's the
overriding theme.
And the-- the third installment
and the fourth installment,
I think, explicitly make
reference to depopulation.
They talk about the plan of
the technocrats and their--
their evil offspring
and AI, right,
being there to ensure that
depopulation takes place.
And so I see it as-- as that.
I see it as Platonic.
I see it as a kind
of Gnostic sort
of being outside of the
pre-determined limits
and bounds of time through
some sort of rebellion
on the part of the human spirit.
>> Yeah.
The demiurge is the Skynet.
>> Exactly.
>> And the rebellion--
the rebellion among
the Sophianic masses
is coming through John
Connor and his mom, who
starts the whole thing going.
>> Right.
>> So the whole thing does have
a kind of a Gnostic overlay
to it, a deep, dark warning
also about where we're headed,
and just a great series.
>> Join us again next
time on Hollywood Decoded.
I'm Jay Dyer.
>> And I'm Jay Weidner.
And thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]